# Bill of Materials (BOM) and sourcing guide
The included spreadsheet file contains our recommendations for the parts to purchase for the build. We will provide a couple of alternatives, as well as Aliexpress links so that they can be easily sourced globally. Note the pricess fluctuate rapidly on Ali, there are also variations in exchange rates. You might be able to find a better deal from one of the local suppliers on your country (e.g. [OneTwo3D](https://www.onetwo3d.co.uk/) in the UK, or [3DJake](https://www.3djake.uk/) in Germany & rest of EU).

### Finding the best BOM option for you
One of the easiest ways to source the printer parts is to actually buy one of the pre-made kits from brands like LDO, Siboor, Formbot, FYSETC. Note that when ordering a kit, you will be throwing away half of the parts since we don't need them, but you will also have more spares of others. Some kits come with a surplus of the printed parts, so this might be the option for you if you don't have another printer to print them.

The ranking of differences in quality between these brands is a subject of widespread discussion amongst Voron community members, but the general consensus appears to be that LDO is by far the highest quality, Siboor is OK and much cheaper, Formbot and FYSETC are the cheapest, but can be hit or miss, i.e. you might get lower quality parts, with worse tolerances. Lower part quality might limit your machine's performance and reliability slightly, but comes with the benefit of a lower price point.

Buying a Siboor/Formbot/FYSETC kit + any remaining parts is probably the easiest way to get below the $500 price point. One of the goals of the project is to further refine this sourcing process to make it as easy as possible; this might involve a custom kit specifically for this printer, or some new custom parts which simplify the assembly and reduce the cost even further.

A good middle ground for now can be sourcing LDO parts for the components which affect the performance the most (in order of importance: the linear rails, motors, frame extrusions, nozzles), though this might result in going slightly above the $500 price point depending on where you are ordering from, the fluctuating prices and currency exchange rates, etc.

### Electronics
The default for electronics is using a Raspberry Pi3B/3B+ or newer, but you could also use a Pi Zero 2W to further reduce the price point; this does come with some caveats though, and the regular Pi makes it easier to add further addons like webcams using USB, so we recommend this option. The are also boards that remove the need for a separate Pi running Klipper + MCU board, like the Fly Gemini 3.0 board with which some kits like Siboor come packaged with. This can be convenient, but OP has seen that there can sometimes be mysterious issues with these boards (or they work perfectly fine...). The Pi + SKR Pico combo is the safe choice if you want to make sure you don't run into issues later.